LEAP YEARS
""""""""""


PROBLEM

Write a program that lists out leap years for the years between 1990
and 2110


ALTERNATE PROBLEMS

Write a program that does the above but for different cultural calendars
(see Wikipedia article for ideas).



ALGORITHM

The Gregorian reform modified the Julian calendar's scheme of leap years
as follows:

Every year that is exactly divisible by four is a leap year, except for
years that are exactly divisible by 100, but these centurial years are
leap years if they are exactly divisible by 400.

For example, the years 1700, 1800, and 1900 are not leap years, but the
years 1600 and 2000 are.

The year variable being tested is the integer representing the number
of the year in the Gregorian calendar.

    if (year is not divisible by 4) then (it is a common year)
    else if (year is not divisible by 100) then (it is a leap year)
    else if (year is not divisible by 400) then (it is a common year)
    else (it is a leap year)



WIKIPEDIA

A leap year (also known as an intercalary year or bissextile year) is a
calendar year containing an additional day (or, in the case of lunisolar
calendars, a month) added to keep the calendar year synchronized with
the astronomical or seasonal year. Because seasons and astronomical
events do not repeat in a whole number of days, calendars that have
the same number of days in each year drift over time with respect to
the event that the year is supposed to track. By inserting (also called
intercalating) an additional day or month into the year, the drift can
be corrected. A year that is not a leap year is called a common year.

For example, in the Gregorian calendar, each leap year has 366 days
instead of 365, by extending February to 29 days rather than the common
28. These extra days occur in years which are multiples of four (with
the exception of centennial years not divisible by 400). Similarly, in
the lunisolar Hebrew calendar, Adar Aleph, a 13th lunar month, is added
seven times every 19 years to the twelve lunar months in its common
years to keep its calendar year from drifting through the seasons. In
the Bahá'í Calendar, a leap day is added when needed to ensure that
the following year begins on the vernal equinox.

The name "leap year" probably comes from the fact that while a fixed date
in the Gregorian calendar normally advances one day of the week from
one year to the next, the day of the week in the 12 months following
the leap day (from March 1 through February 28 of the following year)
will advance two days due to the extra day (thus "leaping over" one of
the days in the week). For example, Christmas Day (December 25) fell on
a Tuesday in 2012, Wednesday in 2013, Thursday in 2014, and Friday in
2015 but then "leapt" over Saturday to fall on a Sunday in 2016.

The length of a day is also occasionally changed by the insertion of leap
seconds into Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), owing to the variability
of Earth's rotational period. Unlike leap days, leap seconds are not
introduced on a regular schedule, since the variability in the length
of the day is not entirely predictable.


REFERENCES

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leap_year
